yo what's up all of us are familiar with
the extent to which we've been socially
conditioned but parenting by the offer
of various forms of punishments and
rewards as we grow up and by exposure to
media such as television and movies but
as we mature it's easy to be aware of
the effect of prohibitions of what it is
we fear to do what we've been told that
we should be afraid to do that's
relatively easy and some behaviors
instead are solicited from us but
positive reward by the expectation that
these opinions these beliefs will be
rewarded will be approved of by parental
figures by society at large and people
can build up quite a burden of
unexamined beliefs of values they've
never really challenged or thought
through the effects of or utility of in
this way from the social conditioning
and I do think that one of the joys of
middle age is that we encounter
challenge examine and change these views
and we changes characters ourselves
Hollywood movies tend to celebrate the
change in character you have in your
teenage years but there are some changes
in character that come with real
maturity much later in life it would be
very easy for me to repeat the sort of
nonsensical myth that we live only for
our own children this is one of these
views
that's solicited from people and
rewarded but I think very few people
pause to really think through what the
implications of this would be I just
paused to mention de Grasse dimension I
am happy that I'm now in contact with so
many vegan parents before I had a
youtube channel when I merely had a blog
the main reason for me to create that
vlog was to get in touch with other
vegan parents vegans who had kids of any
kind
and I was sending up tons of messages to
the other bloggers you know most of them
were like food blocks say oh hey you
know are you a vegan parents I'm if he
can parent to kind of thing and trying
to get a group started and what have you
those days are behind me now but I'm
fundamentally very glad that there are
so many vegan parents talking to me on
patreon getting my content either as
videos or as podcasts or what have you
that's wonderful for me that's really a
niche I've always been seeking and
obviously the responsibilities of
parenthood bring with them a very
different perspective on the world from
what you find from single or childless
people at any age whether they're you
know teenagers middle-aged what-have-you
I appreciate the gravity of that
worldview that comes with having and
raising kids and you know the different
way of thinking about the future earlier
this year I did the paperwork to join
the army the Canadian military huge
decision in my life
huge sacrifice in many ways and wasn't
hypothetical I actually did it I signed
up and I went through the testing
procedure and there are reflections
about that on this channel
uh none terribly profound if I were to
say I did this for my daughter that
would be a kind of corny stereotyped
trope such as everyone's used to hearing
on TV and in movies oh I did it all for
my kids I did this all because I love my
daughter so much and that everything in
my life I am living for my daughter etc
but if you really pause to think about
it that's a terrible thing to say it
would be terrible to turn to your child
one day in the future and say I joined
the army because of you it would be a
terrible thing to tell your child I
could have been a scholar I could have
been intellectual I could have been
humanitarian work there all these other
things I want to do in my life but for
you because of you I joined the army
terrible now apart from being terrible
is it true or untrue
really I mean I think even in a
situation as extreme as joining the army
I think actually if you pause and think
about it deeply in your own life it's
untrue there's a whole constellation of
considerations that go into making
decision like that including what wars
are currently ongoing a hobby to me
there's there's a big difference between
the Vietnam War and the current wars
that are being fought in Syria Iraq you
know they've accomplished me in Ukraine
and Russia you know to me there are real
horror moral ethical questions that go
into asking are you gonna fight this war
are you gonna fight the wars that seem
likely in the next five years you know
we can't predict everything but all
right hard decisions nothing to do with
my daughter my daughter didn't decide
that so on the one hand it's sort of
morally odious on the other hand I
really question in every case to what
extent that is true obviously you know
some decisions you make are purely for
your kids why did I go to Germany in
December I went to Germany to visit my
daughter it was a hundred percent of in
that case sure of course there are some
decisions I make totally and purely for
my daughter
but point out it's often worthwhile to
contrast the gender binary in these
problems because it reveals a more
subtle hypocrisy nobody thinks it's
insulting for me to say that what I'm
doing in my life in my career right now
is entirely a sacrifice for my daughters
for my daughter as if lwendo nobody
thinks that but if we turn it around if
I were to say the same things about my
wife now my ex-wife it would actually be
quite insulting to say my wife live is
only for my daughter that she does these
things only for my daughter hold on why
would you say that about my ex-wife my
ex-wife is a real intellectual she's got
a child but she also makes decisions and
does things and has ambitions for
reasons of scholarship career you know
to write a book to publish something
meaningful to make the world a better
place my wife does meaningful things for
meaningful reasons legally we're still
not divorced so legally she still is my
wife by the way I misspoke fur doesn't
matter wife ex-wife we could use it
either term in this context you know in
some ways if somebody said oh to my
ex-wife oh but of course you're you you
just do all this for your daughter this
is all you be rather insulting no no the
point would be to insist she's a parent
but she also has serious moral concerns
political concerns personal ambitions
you know research ambitions etc she's a
person of substance in the world and yet
for a man it's become this corny
Hollywood trope to say oh it's all it's
all because I love my kids it's all for
my dog I only did this from against I'm
only alive for my kids I'm only living
for my kids I'm devoted to my kids okay
I think it's worth challenging I think
it's worth thinking clearly about
because at the end of the day what
you're doing in doing something for your
kids is your abdicating responsibility
for it you're saying that Who I am as a
parent deletes Who I am as a human being
and some people may feel that way you
may really feel like your potential as
an individual has been snuffed out by
having kids you may feel that you didn't
get to be who you wanted to be or you
don't get to be yourself who you really
because your parents you may feel that
way you can talk about that feeling but
this idea that having a kid is a mission
that is the reason why you're alive and
that it explains these are the decisions
in a subtle way I think it is kind of
sick and distorting and it's worthwhile
thinking about what position of what's
the kid into this was for you kid
this is because of you kid that's that's
not a burden you want to put on the next
generation
now to me this raises somewhat broader
question of the way in which Hollywood
movies and similar media shape our
expectations of life on Earth I am NOT
like any character you've ever seen in a
movie or a TV show and that's not a
boast that doesn't mean I'm a good
person or a great person or even an
interesting person it just means that in
general they don't make movies about
people like me I'm the sort of guy who
went to learn Pali in Laos and Cambodia
Pali is an obscure language I'm the sort
of guy who went to learn Kree in
Saskatchewan Saskatchewan is an obscure
place and Cree is an obscure language
the things that motivated me to do that
the combination of humanitarian and
research concerns they are just not
things that show up in a Hollywood movie
okay so when we set our minds to this
task of challenging the preconceptions
that are inculcated into us and when we
apply them other people when we meet
other people you know don't ever say to
me oh you know but eyes'll you're you're
living for your daughter you're doing
this for your daughter this is made
worthwhile - to give your daughter you
can ask me that as a question you can
ask me you know did you join the army
for your daughter I'm not offended by
the question but really if you think of
because I have an answer I have an
answer for that question it might not be
the answer you're expecting right but if
you tell it to me as a fact I do think
that's offensive and the only reason why
I'm not in the army right now is the
incompetence of the Canadian bureaucracy
and back when I was in Toronto years and
years ago I heard about guys who tried
to join the Canadian Army and the
bureaucracy was so incompetent that they
ended up joining the American army
instead I guess they have you know
relatives in the u.s. they have some
connection by blood technically I don't
know that's possible for different types
of people you know if you're a Canadian
citizen how you join the user I've never
looked into it but I mean I never
thought I would consider that option but
at the end of that
perience i realized boy if i actually
want to join an army i would have to do
exactly that i have to join the u.s.
army who in their right mind would tell
a child your father went off to
Afghanistan to kill or be killed for you
I mean you know even for a child born
and raised in Afghanistan that's a
really troubling message but for a kid
in Canada or France or Germany to tell
them your father went to put bullets
into human beings for you I don't like
where that's coming from I don't like
where it's going now if you tell your
kid your father went because he really
thought there was an important
difference between democracy and
theocracy your father went because even
though he had a background in history
and books even though he was a sceptic
about war even though he'd studied some
of the worst disasters in the history of
warfare atrocities wars that ended badly
even humanitarian interventions that
were disasters even though he done all
that study
he knows the bottom line is life on
Earth is not an academic debating Club
and with some groups like Isis problem
is not going to be resolved by sitting
down at a boardroom table and having a
debate some problems some issues some
questions in the history of the world do
get resolved by brute force whether or
not you or anyone else in an academic
debating room think that brute force is
justified that's what's gonna answer
that question so much you could say
right now as it happens I didn't go into
the service as stated but the whole
puzzle of just outlined for how you
would justify to a child that your
father has joined the army to go kill
other human beings how much harder is it
to justify if that father gets killed if
that father comes home in a casket
my terrible thing to tell a child we did
this for you so look I'm recording this
it's a somewhat delayed reply to a
comment I got from one of my fans in
patreon where he made statements like
this like well you know you say this and
that about your life but really you're
living for your daughter and you're
doing all this for your daughter and I
said look don't tell me that I'm not a
character out of some movie I'm not and
you know that's just because they don't
make movies about people like me some
people are you can meet some people who
kind of remind you of a character from a
movie you know fiction is made to
resemble reality right I'm not on an ego
trip about it
but you know do not put corny Hollywood
sentiments onto me and expect me to wear
it as a hat that's not who I am that's
not what I'm about I'm being really real
with you guys I'm being really honest
and one day I hope my own daughter can
see these videos and know what kind of a
man I was but I'm not trying to be
anyone else not for her not for you so
when I have the honesty to tell you how
terrible my life is how terrible the
decisions I'm making are what the stakes
are what the consequences are don't
ignore that don't flush that aside and
disregard that in order to evoke some
trope familiar from all atwood movie
that's not who I am